In this tutorial, we'll look at the decals and create the bullet trail effect. If
you see red lighting needs to rebuild in the upper left corner, you can fix it as follows.
Click on the triangle next to the build button. In the lighting quality menu, you can
select the quality of the light and then click on the build lighting only button and wait for a while.
This time will depend directly on the quality that you have chosen. The process is complete, the
lettering has been removed, and the lighting looks more realistic. In the place actors window, go
to the visual effects category, find the asset decal there and drag it onto the stage.
A decal is a special kind of material that is projected onto meshes: both static meshes
and skeletal meshes. We pulled the decal actor asset onto the stage. In its settings,
in the Decal category, we can see what properties are available: this is the decal material, various types of fade
and also the size of the decal box. Before the lesson, I put the unreal logo .png file
into the dev folder of our project . Let's create a decal material based on this image. Right
click on the image asset and select create material. We name the material M_TestDecal.
Open the material asset. The texture was automatically substituted into BaseColor. In order for us to use this
material as a decal, we need to select the main material node and select Deferred Decal in the property material domain
, and set translucent in blend mode. We will not analyze the materials
, this is not really the topic of our course. The only addition is the alpha channel of the texture.
Pin Opacity. Save the material, return to the content browser and assign this material
to the property Decal Material. The logo is displayed on the stage and it is projected onto the floor. Using this technique,
you can make various graffiti on the walls, create the effect of characters' traces on different
surfaces. We will use this technique to create bullet marks.
In the settings, you can change the size of the decal box, thereby reducing the volume in which it will be
projected onto the mesh. The main thing is that this volume intersects the surface we need.
Place it on the top of the cube. Let's see how it looks. We get a pretty neat poster.
Before the tutorial, I added a special decal material from the shooter game.
If you enter Decal in the search, you can find this material called ImpactDecal.
Let's install it in our decal actor and this material visually represents a bullet trace.
We can place it on the floor and see how it will look with the current textures.
If we open the material, it looks a little more complex than the one we created,
but all the manipulations with the texture are done to improve the visual quality: the textures are desaturated,
different values ​​of the material parameters are set, and there is also a normal map texture.
The decal will spawn at the same time as the inpact effect spawns.
Let's create additional structures in CoreTypes that we will need in this tutorial. The first structure
will be named FDecalData. In this structure, we will store the necessary settings for the current decal.
First, the main property will contain the decal material. The base class that is responsible
for material in C ++ is called UMaterialInterface. We name the variable Material.
The second field will be responsible for the size of the decal. It is of type FVector. We name it Size. Let's set the default value for
this variable. To do this, we will use the FVector constructor with one parameter.
This constructor initializes all FVector components with the same number.
That is, the decal will be projected in the box by default, each side of which is 10.
The next parameter is lifetime. This is the lifetime of the decal, that is, how long this decal will be on the stage.
The last parameter is FadeOutTime. It will be responsible for the animation time of the decal alpha component.
In fact, over a given period of time, the decal will dissolve and then disappear from the scene.
The second structure we need will combine the Niagara effect and the decal.
Let's call this structure FImpactData.
Above the structures, let's make a comment that these types are visual effects - vfx.
And we also need a forward declaration for NiagaraSystem.
The first property of our structure is a pointer to the Niagara system. We call the data property NiagaraEffect.
The second property is our structure - FDecalData.
Go to the weaponFX component. We include the header file CoreTypes.
We change the first property. Instead of a separate Niagara system, the default effect will
contain both the Niagara system and FDecalData.
We will also change the name of the variable. Let's call it DefaultImpactData.
We need to make the same change in the second property. Replace the Niagara system
with FImpactData and rename the property to ImpactDataMap.
Go to the .cpp file. Let's start by including additional header files. We need
GameplayStatics and also the DecalComponent, which is located at "Components / DecalComponent.h"
Before spawning the decal, let's refactor the code of the PlayImpactFX function.
We call the local variable ImpactData and assign it the value of property DefaultImpactData.
We replace property EffectsMap with ImpactDataMap and make a similar replacement under the if statement.
Let's add a comment that first we are spawning Niagara.
We'll also add some one-line comments for formatting, because the function code is quite long.
And we replace the already non-existent variable Effect with ImpactData.NiagaraEffect, that is, we refer to the field of our structure.
We added all the necessary structures and refactoring.
We are now ready to spawn the decal. The decal spawn function is located
in the UGameplayStatics functional library. This function is called SpawnDecalAtLocation,
or SpawnDecalAttached. That is, we either simply spawn the decal into the world, or we spawn
and attach it to some component. You and I will use the SpawnDecalAtLocation function.
The first parameter is WorldContex, we pass the GetWorld pointer there.
We will also add comments, otherwise the function will not fit on one line.
The next parameter is the decal material. We have it stored in our FDecalData structure,
which itself is in the ImpactData structure. We pass it as the second parameter.
The third parameter is the size of the decal. We also refer to our FDecalData, to the Size field.
After that comes the location of the decal in the world. By analogy with the Niagara effect, we get this variable from HitResult, the ImpactPoint field.
The next variable is the rotation of the decal. We pass in the same value that we used
when spawning the Niagara system. All other parameters can be left as default. And so we
spawned the decal into the world. A reasonable question arises, what to do with our LifeTime and FadeOutTime variables?
The decal spawn function returns a pointer to the decal component. We need
this pointer to set the decal life parameters. We create a local variable. We call it DecalComponent
and assign a pointer that the spawn function returns. Check the given pointer for nullptr.
If the decal component is nonzero, then we use a function called SetFadeOut.
The decal also has another function called SetFadeIn. She is responsible for the
appearance of the decal, but we will not bother with you like that. The first parameter is called StartDelay,
that is, after how long the disappearance animation will start. We directly pass the LifeTime variable into it.
The second variable is responsible for the timing of the fade animation. We pass the FadeOutTime there.
The third variable is responsible for removing the owner decal. This variable will only make sense
when we spawn our decal using the SpawnDecalAttached function. Let's compile our code.
Let's set up all the visual assets. Open the blueprint of the rifle. Selecting our vfx component.
And now each effect consists of a Niagara system and a DecalData.
Set the DefaultImpact Niagara effect. We will use the same material everywhere - ImpactDecal.
Leave all decal parameters as default. We need to re-install the entire map of our
effects, because we have changed the data type. In general, we could not add a decal to the structure
because we only have one decal material for all surfaces. We could make it a separate property
and spawn it independently of the Niagara effect. We did it right from the architectural point of view right away.
Even in our case, when we do not have special materials, we can slightly change the parameters of the decal
and even just copy the current material and add some kind of mixing with a different color to the texture.
The second asset where we need to set the effects is projectile. We open it.
Set the ProjectileImpact Niagara effect in the vfx component.
Set up our only decal material.
In the case of projectile, we can change the default decal size.
Make it bigger. It's still a trace of a missile hit.
We launch. We shoot at the floor.
Together with the Niagara effect, our decals spawn. In our case, they are absolutely the same and do not depend on the surface.
Let's switch to the launcher. The contacts leave a giant decal. The only thing that can
be noticed is that these decals really disappear after 5 seconds,
but they do it instantly without any animation of the alpha channel. Let's fix it up.
We find the decal material in the search. We open it.
Materials have a special parameter that stores the value of the decal transparency variable.
This parameter is called DecalLifetimeOpacity. At the moment when the
FadeOut animation starts in the decal, this parameter starts changing from 1 to 0.
We can simply multiply this parameter by the
alpha channel assignment of our texture and feed the final value to the Opacity node.
Let's check it out. Let's change the weapon to the launcher - it will be more noticeable. We are waiting for five seconds.
And the decal faded smoothly in the time we set - 0.7 seconds. We can also fire a burst
and watch the decals fade away. That's all in this lesson.